# Generalised Tool for the Analysis of Atomic Configurations in Crystalline Materials

#### This repository contains the scripts required to perform atomic configurational analysis on the large-box models produced by RMCProfile, a Reverse Monte Carlo fitting software. The method has been developed using the principles outlined by **Dr. Phillip C. Clapp in his work, 'Atomic Configurations in Binary Alloys' (Phys. Rev. B 4, 255 – 15 July, 1971 (DOI: https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevB.4.255))**. Though the original paper confined analysis to binary crystalline materials of Primitive, FCC, or BCC structures, the above code is capable of performing configurational analysis on crystalline materials of any structure, with any number of constituent elements.

###### Some of the instructions for use are contained in the README.txt files contained in the 'exe' and 'Batching Scripts' directories; the following, however, is an outline of both how to use the scripts, and the files produced by said scripts.

###### **NB: At present, this software can only be used on files provided in the form produced by RMCProfile, i.e. '.rmc6f' files. It is hoped that future versions will be adapted to accommodate all file types pertaining to the location and species of constituent atoms.** 

###### **NBII: It is also worth noting that the batch script version requires adapting for Mac and Linux OS, though all .py files contained herein are usable across all operating systems. It is also hoped that this will be addressed in future versions.**  

#### 1. Using the software

###### At present there are two main 'methods' for the use of this software.

###### The first is to use the **Configurational_Analysis.bat** file in conjunction with the **exe** folder. When run, the .bat file will open a terminal window, and begin the check/download for all necessary python modules. A prompt window will then load into the terminal. 
###### The following commands then act as inputs for this terminal window:

1. dict: 
###### Use this command to generate dictionary files for the structure in question. This command requires a **.cif** file for input. This can be entered as a **file path** string, with or without quotation marks (""). The important crystal information will then be extracted from the .cif file, and printed. The user is then given a list of **constituent atom types** from 0-x, where x is the total number of constituent elements, and prompted (Y/N) for any equivalent lattice sites. Atoms on an equivalent lattice should then be listed, by number, in the format 0,1,2... Prompts for further equivalent positions may then be accepted or rejected, and the script will finish running.

2. config:
###### Use this command for configurational analysis. This command will prompt the user for the directory containing the dictionaries generated by 'dict', followed by a prompt for the sub-lattice and '.rmc6f' file that the user is interested in analysing. Again, this can be entered as a file path string with or without quoatation marks. The script will then perform the configurational analysis, and end by outputting the generated files into the same directory as the .rmc6f file. 

3. vis:
###### Use this command to generate interactive images of the enhanced configurations of your large-box model. This is, at present, a manual process: the user will be prompted for the dictionaries directory once again, followed by a request for the desired configurations for visualisation. Configurations may be input using their associated Configurational label, in any order, as long as they are separated by commas in the form: 0,12,34,14,... The plotting window that opens will make use of matplotlib.pyplot, for a three dimensional, rotatable image.

###### The other method for using this software is to use the Python scripts contained in the 'Batching Scripts' directory. These .py files are identical to the ones contained in the 'exe' folder, and can be run in sequence using the **Configuration_Master.py** file if desired. The utility of this folder is to allow high-throughput configurational analysis for many datasets, without the requirement for user input. These .py files (specifically Generalised_Clapp_vx.py and Histograms_vx.py) can be run through the terminal via a looped batch script. Note: The Requirements.bat and requirements.txt files are there to highlight the necessary Python modules for the use of this software, and the .bat file can be run on its own to automate the module download process. 


#### 2. Files Produced by this Software

A. Dictionary Files
###### When running the dict command, several files are produced depending on the number of atomic sub-lattices specified by the user The following are presented in alphabetical order.

- .basisX: This file contains the coordinates of the numbered/labelled 'nearest neighbour' positions for atoms of the specified lattice, as well as a row showing the sublattice in question. The 'Atom No.' column contains the labelled atom position, which can be used to reconstruct the Configurations once generated. The file endings ('X') correspond to the sub-lattice number.

- binomX:  This file contains an ordered list of Configuration labels/numbers, followed by the multiplicity of this configuration for the lattice, and the number of 'dislike' atoms in this configuration.

- .cellpos: This file contains the coordinates of all atoms in the reduced unit cell.

- .cfgdictX: This file contains a list of all possible configurations in the system in decimal notation, and their corresponding Configuration label.

- finsub & initsub: List the atoms present in the respective sub-lattices.

- symX: Contains the numbered atoms (1-N, where N is the total number of Nearest Neighbours) and their 'rotated' forms, in a list (Used to inform the binary labelling system).

B. Configuration Histograms and Associated 'Clapp' Files
###### When running the config command, the most common file produced is a histogram plot of enhanced configurations. These plots correspond to unique pseudo-binary combinations of atoms in the system. The remainder are text files containing relevant statistical information.

- STEMNAME_XC_subY_EF(_A/AB/B).png: This rather long file name is composed of multiple parts with usable information. An example might be 'Iron_1C_sub0_EF_A.png'. The 'STEMNAME' is the file name of the .rmc6f file used to generate the histograms. '_XC' refers to the specific pseudobinary that the histogram is built from - 'X' in this instance is simply the number of the constituent atom, as given in the .rmc6f file under 'ATOMS'. '_subY' is the number of the sublattice, as selected by the user. 'A/AB/B' denotes the atom type considered in the pseudobinary (or both!) for that particular histogram; the file _without_ this ending (i.e. simply ending in _EF.png) is the total histogram of enhanced configurations.

- .clapp: The .clapp file contains a list of all of the atoms in the large-box: their coordinates, type, and associated Configuration in each pseudo-binary. The file also contains information on the size of the large-box.

- _EF.clapp: The _EF.clapp file is the important one for analysis - this contains a list of Clapp-style Configurations, the number of atoms in the system that correspond to that configuration for each pseudobinary, and their statistical enhancement. Totals and statistical enhancements are provided for each pseudo-binary _and_ atoms A, B, and total in each case. The important column to note is the final 'total' column, which contains the overall enhancement of that configuration in the system.
